# CPU Simulation
Modern operating systems maintain a lot of state information to support their operation. Some of this information can be periodically captured to provide a snapshot of a currently running system, or logged for later analysis. In combination, the execution requirements of processes and the input/output (I/O) operations they perform, is termed the job-mix. This project will use the information in a tracefile to find the near-optimal scheduling of processes, in the belief that future job-mixes will be similar to that in a recent tracefile.
# Operating System Model
Consider an operating system's 5-State Model of Process Execution. New processes are admitted to the system and are immediately marked as Ready to run. Each process executes, in turn, until it:
1> completes its execution (at which time the process Exits),
2> executes for a finite time-quantum (after which the process is marked as Ready and is queued until it can again Run), or
3> requests some input or output (I/O) (at which time the process is marked as Blocked and queued until its I/O request is satisfied).
For this project we'll consider a simplified operating system in which only a single process occupies the single CPU at any one time. The CPU has a clock speed of 1GHz, enabling it to execute one-billion instructions per second (or 1000 instructions per microsecond, 1000000 instructions per millisecond). For this simplified project, we do not need to consider any RAM accesses.
It takes 5 microseconds to perform a context-switch - to move one process from Ready → Running. No time is consumed deciding that the currently Running process can remaining Running (and start a new time-quantum). All other state transitions occur in zero time (unrealistic, but keeping the project simple).
The CPU is connected to a number of input/output (I/O) devices of differing speeds, using a single high-speed data-bus. Only a single process can use the data-bus at any one time, and it takes 5 microseconds for any process to first acquire the data-bus.
Only a single process can access each I/O device (and the data-bus) at any one time. If the data-bus is in use (data is still being transferred) and a second process also needs to access the data-bus, the second process must be queued until the current transfer is complete. When a data transfer completes, all waiting (queued) processes are consider to determine which process can next acquire the data-bus. If multiple processes are waiting to acquire the data-bus, the process that has been waiting the longest for the device with the highest priority will next acquire the data-bus. Thus, all processes waiting on higher priority devices are serviced before any processes that are waiting on lower priority devices.
The result need to support Multiple blocked queues.
# Tracefiles
We may assume that the format of each tracefile is correct, and its data consistent, so we do not need to check for errors in the tracefile.Each line provides a device definition including its name and its data transfer rate (all transfer rates are measured in bytes/second). Devices with higher transfer rates have a higher priority and are serviced first. The final line indicates the end of all device definitions, and that the operating system commences execution setting the system-time to zero microseconds. All times in the tracefile are measured in microseconds.
# Evaluating Operating System Scheduling Effectiveness
There are a number of ways to measure the effectiveness of an operating system's process scheduling. There can be no single perfect measure of its effectiveness as it is very dependent on the job-mix to be scheduled, and the data transfer rates of the system's devices. For this project we will use the total process completion time to evaluate our process scheduling. With reference to our simple tracefile above, the total process completion time is the time from the commencement of the first process to the time that the final process exits. 
Under our simple operating system model, the time-quantum may be varied to permit each process to occupy the CPU for different lengths of time. Varying the time-quantum will result in the same job-mix exhibiting different total process completion times. With a short time-quantum, a system running many processes will give each of those processes a frequent chance to 'make progress', and will appear very responsive. With a long time-quantum, computationally-intensive processes can perform a lot of their execution, but delay the execution of other processes waiting for the CPU, and may make the system appear sluggish.
Each job-mix (recorded in a tracefile) will have a near optimal time-quantum that minimises the total process completion time. If future job-mixes are similar to the one in a given tracefile, and we can determine a good time-quantum, then we can tune our process scheduling to match our anticipated job-mix.
